[country music]
[Peter] So Bob, today, mega adventure,
because you were saying this on the phone
and I was agreeing, this is one of
the most mixed up parts of the country.
-I love it.
-And we're doing it in style.
We're doing it in style in this vehicle.
This is a former heavy rescue fire truck.
Everything is outside.
This is all my cleaning and extra fuel.
Same storage on the other side.
Clothes and extra water,
but this is the good stuff.
-Oh wow.
Is your nickname Diamond Plate Bob?
[Bob laughs] No.
-This is where you're sleeping?
-This is my bedroom.
This is cedar lined.
We took cedar
out of an old cabin that we had.
Then coffee service. Always coffee service.
Maps.
This is my desk, computers.
The kitchen's outside.
It's a little tight. Surprisingly.
It's a 26 year old vehicle.
And I think it was used
fairly heavily in the beginning.
But this stuff is still actually tight,
like new tight.
This is the pantry.
So then all of my food
and everything is out here.
-What's this?
-That is an air compressor.
I left all this on here.
So when the power is on.
220 volts, 115 volts.
Doesn't this all fall over
when you're driving?
Everything stays really solid.
This is the kitchen.
-That's nice,
the cooking smoke is out here.
Yeah. Everything. All the cooking is.
I don't want that smell inside.
[Diesel engine starts]
So Bob, you're on the road how much
out of the year? Living out of this?
-All the time.
This is where I live. This is my home.
Welcome to my home.
-Okay. So what sparked this lifestyle?
I was in radio. So I got fired.
I don't know
how many times I've been fired.
I love radio.
But radio does not love me back.
So I decided I thought
I'll find a better business.
I'll start podcasting.
So I was living in a duplex
and I had my podcast.
My idea was that I was gonna
sell advertising like local radio.
Well it worked okay.
I actually had a couple of good years.
And then everybody and his brother
got a podcast.
So around COVID time
I found myself thinking this is ridiculous.
And there was almost a voice that said,
Go!
Just go!
It kept getting louder.
So I basically threw everything away,
or sold everything, or gave it away.
And moved into a 2000 Ford ambulance.
So you were one of those first guys
doing the ambulance living right?
-I think I might have been the first.
-Big claim. That's a popular thing now.
Which drove me crazy.
It was like, "Is that an ambulance?"
'Cause everybody wanted…
Well good luck redoing a new fire truck.
-Okay so Bob, Sedona here.
This is one of the so called vortexes.
-Have you heard of these?
-I have heard of the vortexes.
And I'm already feeling it.
-Are you feeling the vortex energy?
So there's something energetically
that happens. So they say.
Apparently.
Have you heard about the orbs in Sedona?
-No.
Apparently there's orbs in Sedona.
They say so on YouTube so it must be true.
And this is all iron
in these mountains too.
-That's what makes it red?
But it's also a conductor.
-Are you a believer, Bob?
I mean the vortexes?
Or something powerful here?
There's something powerful.
All of Arizona is mystical.
The entire Southwest is mystical.
Because a lot of it,
millions of years ago was underwater.
It was an ocean.
So just imagine if the Atlantic Ocean
dried up someday and it was like this.
[Peter] Okay so Sedona,
as we can see, there's money here.
A lot of people want to come
for this beautiful environment.
Sort of a bubbled up place,
removed from society. That's how I feel.
-Well I think a lot of people
are trying to escape the corporate world.
And it depends on what your resources are.
If you have a lot of resource
you can do a lot of things.
If you don't have a lot of resource
you go out in a 20 year old ambulance.
-So Bob, a lot of my videos as you know,
'cause you were in one
that was three years ago in Quartzsite.
-Wow.
-Can you believe that? Three years ago.
Bob and I met, southern Arizona.
Southwestern Arizona.
Bob was in his early stage
of living off the grid.
We've kept in touch.
We sort of like
exchanged notes on the country.
'Cause you're going granular in America.
You go down the back roads.
I hate highways. I hate the freeway.
I stay off the freeway
unless I absolutely have to use it.
-So the point of this video
is to get into that
really interesting component of America
where when you go granular
all of these different worlds open up.
More so than most countries I've been to.
Oh yeah.
Because every state has a different
legal history
and a social history.
Even though people think
it's all one country, especially the West.
Each state had its own legal framework
when it became a territory.
Yes, according to the rules
of how you admit states to the union.
But most of these states just came about.
This is amazing.
[Peter] Yeah this is really cool.
Sort of the tourist center I would say.
Or the part that's done really well,
Tlacapaque.
Done in, what is that, a Spanish style?
Sort of a Pueblo style?
[Bob] Pueblo, Hacienda, Spanish, Mexican.
-You can see the money in this town.
Just look at these roundabouts, Bob.
-The art there.
-We've spent a lot of money on the art.
And this place brings in,
I was reading last night,
roughly 3 million tourists a year.
-Really?
-From around the world.
A lot of people come for
spirituality, wellness.
See a lot of this going on.
The center for the new age.
It's right here.
[Peter] You have UFO tours.
[Peter] You got a lot of hiking.
[Peter] These trails go back forever.
If I'm to guess
I think these are probably $3 million.
-Something like that.
-A bargain.
A bargain at any price.
-You got a lot of
new construction happening.
And with those views, tough to beat.
I mean from all the country you've seen,
one of the most beautiful places, right?
-Sedona? Absolutely.
So there's different resources and people
have different ways of breaking free.
If you're happy
in your corporate life, good for you.
If you have a job
that calls on your passion, good for you.
But for many people in the corporate world
it seems to be hollow.
To me, travel,
and having the tool to travel in,
which is Unit 11…
-That's the name of this rig?
-This rig is called Unit 11.
You love this, Bob, don't you?
Well it works. I mean I use all that stuff.
-Left flood, the rear flood, all that stuff
-How about Siren Horn?
[flips switches]
[horn honks]
That's why we don't use it too much.
[Peter chuckles]
So did you basically
regress back to 16, Bob?
I am 12 to 15 years old.
And there's drawbacks to this life
but, you know, on balance,
when you hit the highs they are so high.
-When you have an experience like this…
-Right.
It's amazing
and that makes it all worth it.
I don't know what day it is.
I don't have to worry about
where I'm gonna go tomorrow.
[Western music]
[Bob] It's a pretty majestic way to travel.
Yeah it is cool.
It's so smooth too.
Like these seats just bounce.
-Yeah we have air ride.
So this is all called Verde Valley.
And we're like 15 minutes
from Sedona. That's it.
Amazing. Completely different world.
Now we're moving into the mining area.
So we're about to cross
an invisible line Bob.
Basically yes we are going to cross
an invisible line from the red rocks
into the mining history of Arizona.
-And you know what's great
about this part of the state is
there's just so much land.
All this is state or federal land I think.
So there's just a massive buffer zone
between the towns.
Sedona to here there is no development.
Arizona should be seen
as much as possible the way it was.
Can you imagine
coming out here in the 1920s?
None of this was here. The roads were dirt.
You'd be driving a Model T
or a 12-cylinder Buick.
-No air conditioning.
-We don't have air conditioning either.
-That's true.
-This is a summer simulator.
You've gonna have windows open
because the heat is always on?
You can't get the heat off.
It's a Minnesota truck.
June, and you're using the heat.
I can't figure out how to get the heat off.
I'm gonna have to work on that.
[Peter] You have a lot of respect
for this vehicle.
-Yeah that's a great RV.
That's got the same engine I have probably.
That is… or a cat.
It's a Bluebird bus
that was turned into an RV.
It's called a Wanderlust
or Wanderer or something like that.
Pretty cool. Look at that.
-Old '50s gas station.
-Wow that's cool.
Now it's a restaurant.
And we're not stopping here Bob
but this is Cottonwood.
-Your classic Western town right?
-Classic.
[Bob] Historic Clarkdale. Here we are.
[Peter] And it was a total company town.
-Yeah a company town.
-William Clark I believe is the man's name.
-Yeah that's the guy.
-It was basically a smelter town.
all the iron ore
was coming down here from the mountain.
Also mining services.
So they served the mine from down here
and commercial services of other types.
Banks.
You know, Jerome was the mining center.
-Look at this. Beautiful architecture.
-Wow.
-Copper museum.
-And that's the old high school.
So Bob when you pull into a town
you need to take up three spaces?
Yeah I never parallel park.
You don't even think about that.
[truck reverse alarm beeping]
[Peter] The state of Arizona
is a long life and a little bit.
That's it.
So total company town.
Company owned all the real estate,
the school, the hospitals.
So if you work for the mine
they assign you a house
or did you pay rent?
-I know in a lot of places in the country
you're paid in scrip.
Which is company currency that worked
in the company town but nowhere else.
-Okay.
-So get paid from the mine.
-You're like I need to get out of here.
-You can't.
-Your money's not going anywhere.
-Yeah, well…
-My family's from a mining town.
-Oh this is cool.
There were gun battles between
the union and the mining interests.
This is great though.
You can see the bones are here.
Had its moment in the past obviously.
Looks like some comeback happening.
So the founder, Clark, was a politician.
Clark County,
where Las Vegas is, named after him.
-Oh really?
-Same Clark
Look at this.
Got the block glass up here.
-The mining started in Arizona
in probably the late 1870s
maybe a little sooner.
And kind of peaked in the. 1920s.
-[man] How you doing?
-What's up?
-I've seen your videos.
-Oh thank you.
Guys what's going on here?
Uh this is the owner.
-You're the owner?
-One of them.
-Can I show what's going on?
-Just building a bar.
Building a bar? Nice. Oh my God.
-Gorgeous. What's your name?
-I'm Steve. Nice to meet you.
-Peter.
It's the old newsstand.
There used to be a bar.
-You're from Clarkdale?
-Yeah. Born and raised.
Went down when the mine went down?
Now it's coming back?
Now it's coming back.
Cement plant came to town.
-Cement plant?
-Yeah.
Wine Country. Sedona helps.
-Wine Country?
-Yeah. Maynard. The guy from Tool.
He opened his winery and kinda
opened the floodgates.
-He lives up in Jerome right?
-Yeah.
-We put a rooftop bar up.
-Oh let's check it out.
Is this original? This stuff?
-No we put that all in.
-It's beautiful.
One of the oldest
liquor licenses in Arizona.
-When are you opening?
-A month or two.
-What kind of food are you gonna have?
-Flatbreads, salads, sandwiches.
That sounds good.
-Okay there's the cement factory.
-Yeah, the cement plant.
-So some people work there.
-Yep and there's Sedona.
-Up on those rocks?
-Yep.
Look at these plots.
-Down for the bathrooms.
-This is so cool.
This is where you meet
the love of your life right?
There's a fire pit we're putting in.
-We met at the old newsstand.
-[chuckling]
-And this is…
-Look at this.
The bar you serve drinks out of.
[Peter] This is so cool.
-Almost there.
So all the buildings,
we're gonna walk through them
but all done in
a cool old school style there.
Yeah 1914's when this was built.
Okay so the main drag here,
that's vacant right?
-This was vacant.
-Yep.
They're redoing the gas station.
-It's the kayak company.
-Old '50's gas station.
The kayak company bought it.
They do tours of the river.
Beautiful.
They're gonna do a food court
and it looks like it's gonna be awesome.
-That's gonna be nice.
-Are you fired up on this?
Yeah.
It's gonna be like Friday night in Jerome.
-Right?
So we're gonna Jerome next
but different vibe than here right?
Oh yeah.
A small ghost town, kinda hippie vibe.
Really cool. Parking's awful.
-That's no problem for what we're driving.
-We're driving an old fire engine.
We're not gonna be parking in Jerome.
-Take care you guys. Awesome work.
-You too brother.
You did an awesome job.
We're just painting, man.
-You guys live in town?
-Cottonwood.
-Cottonwood alright.
-I watch your videos with my girlfriend.
We watched the one
with the most remote tribe.
You got a rez right up here.
-Yavapai Apache.
-Yeah.
-We're gonna go there.
-Right now?
-Yeah in a little bit.
-Nice seeing you brother.
See you guys. Thank you.
Some more things banging in here.
Isn't it great seeing that in these towns?
There's a revival happening.
An old theater here.
Check this out with the box office.
Well small towns are gonna come back
because they're better places to live.
Plain and simple.
If you want to get away
from the grind this is the place.
Obviously you have to figure out
what you're gonna do.
-Yeah exactly.
Look at that '50s gas station coming back.
Brewery in town.
But you gotta love it.
Even back in the day,
the company vision right?
Make it nice enough
where people want to stay. That's my guess.
Because they didn't seem to
cut corners here right?
Big park in the middle.
Bungalow architecture here.
Craftsmen. A little craftsmen's.
Tudor revival.
Architects planned and designed
Clarkdale as a model town.
And phases of construction that allowed
architectural styles to evolve.
Back in the day
you could have four kids in there easily.
-Yeah.
-Maybe four or five.
[Bob] How much
do you figure that is? $400,000?
-I checked Zillow. It's around that.
-And they're gorgeous.
-This one's done really well.
The idea was to plan the community
and copper is incredibly lucrative.
-Especially in those days.
-And now too.
If you were a miner
this is a pretty good life.
Except you're probably
being paid in script.
Except the work.
-Tough work.
-Well you have to do the mining work.
But people in those eras
were not adverse to hard work
because there wasn't any other work.
-Exactly.
-You could work in an office somewhere
but I mean you're born
at the turn of the century.
What would you know how to do?
You'd know how to ride a horse, hunt,
work on the farm.
So you could adapt farm workers
and other workers like that
for mining very easily.
A lot of them were immigrants.
Up in the UP they came from Cornwall
or whatever it was called, Cornish.
-Finland.
In northern Minnesota
they came from Eastern Europe.
Yeah. A lot of Italians.
They call them the Bohunks up there.
Italians, Hungarians, Czechs.
And then in the Ohio River Valley
and in West Virginia they came from Wales.
And my people are all from Wales.
They came to this country
to mine down in central Ohio.
-This is so cool huh?
Just these little details.
-This is beautiful. I wonder what this was.
I guess some kind of train station.
-So this is a former company town
but in Arizona
there are two that are still operating.
Bagdad, Arizona, Morenci, Arizona.
Everyone in those towns
works for the company.
-What does the company do?
-Freeport-McMoRan, copper.
-Oh. Well God knows we need copper.
-We do.
-If you like electricity.
-If you like electricity you need copper.
Men's lounge.
So back in the day
we had the ladies lounge over there.
They just created
a lot of social things here I bet.
You get people in the community,
wanting to be here.
Is that what that is?
-I'm sure if…
[Bob] Oh, sorry.
-[woman] It's okay.
No longer just a men's lounge.
Apparently they're doing
some serious stuff in there.
Excuse me. Do you know the story
behind the men's lounge female's lounge?
-Can we walk in that building?
-Yeah.
The men would go off
and have their pool time.
-You know pool tables, billiards.
-Okay.
And the ladies
would come in here and have tea time.
Cooking and the ladies lounge.
Vice mayor?
[Bob] Oh my God!
Okay we found the right person.
Oh wow. Look at this.
-Are you doing stuff in here?
-Yeah.
As a matter of fact our local high school
has their senior prom in here.
We just approved that.
Uh oh. This guy.
-Here's Johnny!
[chuckling]
-Do you need me to kick him out?
-No.
-Nice performance, Bob.
-Thank you.
Are you getting many young people
or is this more of a retiree place?
No, there's this is
a great town to raise families.
You want families?
Absolutely. Absolutely.
And it's a lot of
generational growth here.
A lot of town pride here Debbie?
Absolutely. A lot of town pride.
It's a small town but we're mighty.
We have a lot of events.
We just opened a new park down the hill
that's state of the art.
[Peter] Oh look at this.
Oh my God. This is fantastic. Wow.
So what's funding this town? Tax revenue?
-You got something else coming in?
-Tax revenue.
Actually more than our general fund
in grant money that has come in
both federal, state.
-They just want to hold
on to this history here
and make sure this place thrives
because it's unique.
-Is that what it is?
-Right.
You're not gonna get this in Sedona.
This old world feeling.
No.
This here, and Jerome, Cottonwood,
all are very historic to the area.
-Should we hit the road Bob?
-Yeah let's do it.
[Peter] Here we are, Yavapai Apache Tribe.
"Welcome. You are entering
the Yavapai Apache Nation."
"You have voluntarily submitted yourself
to the laws and jurisdiction
of the Yavapai Apache Nation."
So we're in a different jurisdiction.
Just like that.
Pass a border and we're in.
They got gates too.
-They can gate it off.
-Drugs are not welcome by the way.
Local police can't come in here.
I don't know how it works here
but a lot of times it's just sheriffs.
They have to be accompanied
by local police.
They have their own Tribal police.
So here we go guys.
This is what it looks like.
And so in Verde Valley
there are five reservations.
Very small.
And they have a casino.
One of them has a casino.
[Bob] So Yavapai and Apache
are two different tribes.
They're together on the reservation but
historically they were different tribes.
They're like "What is that?!"
So in Verde Valley here
there are roughly 2,200 Natives.
On this res around 200.
And nobody's out.
I'd love to talk to someone.
There's some boarded up homes.
-These were probably built
by the US government.
-So they left when? What was it? 1870?
-Out of Clarkdale?
-They came back.
-I don't remember what year.
-They came back before 1912 I believe.
They didn't leave. They were escorted out.
-They were escorted to San Carlos.
-Yeah.
That reservation.
A couple hundred miles from here.
I think that's about it Bob.
There's just a few suburban streets.
Again juxtapositioning.
So there you go guys.
You want to put a label on Arizona,
good luck.
You want to put a label on
a small part of Arizona right?
Sedona and here, two different worlds.
Here we got a Oova smoke shop.
Drive-thru.
And then I think we're back in Clarkdale.
That's crazy. We just hopped in
we popped out Bob. Two seconds.
A different country, sovereign nation.
And then you can see new
tract homes right outside of it.
Yeah those are $400,000 homes, easy.
Probably.
[Peter] Alright so Jerome. Next stop.
[Bob] Alright. And now the drama begins.
You're gonna hear this truck now
because of these hills.
It's a lot easier going up
than coming down.
It's gonna be hairy.
So Bob what do you love
about being on the road?
I love just driving.
I love to drive and see areas.
And this year I'm spending
more time in individual areas.
I was a month in Death Valley.
Almost a month at Organ Pipe.
15 days in Boulder Oaks..
I've been in Joshua Tree
and Coachella for a month.
And it's great
because you really get to know the area.
You can sort of get an idea
of what the area is actually like.
How do you feel about
your fellow Americans?
It's still a great country.
If you want to work hard
and it gets harder every year but if
you want to work hard it's great country.
And I've met some people recently
who really work hard and they're happy.
Having lots and lots of money,
and making it, and being a billionaire,
I mean it must be great,
but I meet a lot of people
who don't have much that seem happy.
That doesn't mean there isn't hardship
and there aren't people having problems,
but the story
that we're being told of people
on social media is not real.
-Yeah I agree.
The real world is people are pretty great.
I'm just so tired of
the "negativitay" my brother.
-Yeah, I feel ya.
On social media
about how people supposedly are.
Well you know
because you're on social media,
that's the business model
that works really well.
My experience has been
that people are pretty great
regardless of where you meet them.
That's why I like spending more time
in these individual places.
[Western music]
[Peter] It's just built
right into the mountain here.
Got the big J above.
Up on the hillside there,
the biggest building,
I believe was an infirmary.
I think so. Now it's a hotel.
Yeah we can stop by.
It's haunted so I've heard.
-I'm sure it is.
It's gonna get narrow Bob.
Watch that wall.
Just gotta keep me away from that wall.
-You got room.
But you get to listen to the truck.
That's the good thing.
You like that sound Bob. Love it.
-Just a lot of torque huh?
-A lot of torque.
I can take all those spaces.
I'll never turn around.
I'll have to back out which is…
there's a multiple choice question
on the CDL test.
When backing up…
and there's three different options.
Have a person behind you.
Get out and look.
And the last option is don't back up.
That is the right answer.
Don't back up.
Unless you absolutely have to.
You gotta really watch me
on the right because this car is…
-This is gonna be tough.
-Yeah.
Okay you're good so far.
-Okay. Thank you.
I mean these trucks are big.
-Lot of tourists here today.
-Once the wickedest town in the West.
-A billion dollar. copper camp.
[Peter] Mines closed, 1953.
15,000 residents at its peak.
You can see all the former tailings
and evidence of
what went on here back in the day.
Look at this massive slag pile.
-I'm gonna park here.
We'll let this thing
cool down for a little while.
Look at all this machinery.
This is your fun park isn't it Bob?
[Bob chuckles]
Well I take a lot of pictures
of old beat up vehicles and stuff
and it's amazing to see
what they did this work with.
This was the top technology
and I don't know if you ever watched
Jay Leno but he has an old Duesenberg
and he talks about people
think these old cars are rickety and stuff
but in most of the old cars,
especially the '20s and '30s,
the technology worked.
It would have represented the apex
of what we were capable of in those days.
So it's fun to see the relics
because look at that bus.
-Yeah, and the design was better back then.
-Some of the relics are just beautiful.
Look at that thing. That's an old Rambler.
There's an old fire truck
if you're looking for one.
That's…
Before you Bob. Look at this setup.
Look, there's my RV.
Look at it with windows, paned windows.
Shingles.
[Peter] Look at that place.
Let's get up there.
Hello. How is it in there? Did you go?
Shop's so much fun.
Golly, I had a blast in there.
-Oh cool.
-Enjoy if you go.
Yeah thank you.
[old timey music plays]
-You like that one Bob?
-I love that.
We're gonna have some drama
when we go over the mountain.
-How you doing, ma'am?
-Good, how are you?
…started this place.
-Your mom and dad?
-Mm-hmm, Terry and Don Robertson.
Okay so they were here in the heyday?
-He came in the '80.
-Oh okay.
He was an Iowa farm boy
and they both actually met…
Don's actually my stepdad.
-Is that him right there?
-That is him.
All the pictures you'll see,
he brought his old sawmill.
It's a 1914 gas Witte engine
that runs a sawmill.
Okay.
So he was out there all the time.
So this place is legendary a little bit?
Pretty much.
Gearheads come from all over the world
and they would just talk to him.
-They love the classic stuff?
-They love the classic stuff.
He has over a hundred
antique trucks and motorcycles and cars.
Yeah the trucks are great.
You're tied into this place?
I am. I own it now.
We love the lifestyle
living on the mountain.
What's the lifestyle?
You get to close the gate at night.
The government doesn't tell you what to do.
And the country. Country lifestyle.
You know what I mean.
Not a lot of regulations.
-No Karens.
And we can do
what we want to do with the Karens.
[Peter laughs]
-You regulate Karens up here?
-Not in a bad way.
Okay.
-You let 'em know their place.
-Right.
We live on the side of a mountain.
It's up and down.
My house is way on top up there.
-Up here?
-We love the lifestyle.
That's cool.
All of our grandchildren are homeschooled,
all of them have trades,
already know what to do.
My fourteen year old
already runs an excavator
up and down the mountains and stuff.
-Fourteen?
-Yeah he's fourteen.
-All homeschooled?
-All homeschooled.
-All staying around the area?
-They all know how to do something.
Which is useful now.
Exactly.
-That's where the jobs are.
-They have skills. Right.
Because we have no more skills.
Everybody knows
how to press a button in Google.
Do what I'm doing.
And then they know everything.
And then you try to hire them.
I don't want to go there.
I don't want to tell you how that is!
-They have to be taught some skills.
-It's true.
You know, we're just old school.
I'm coming from a really small town.
Actually I was from Louisiana.
I was raised in the bayous.
-No way.
-Yeah.
When you come from Louisiana
to somewhere like Arizona
then you find out
how Arizona is so diversified.
Every hundred miles there's something.
-We've been talking about that.
-It's beautiful.
If you land in Phoenix you're like,
what the hell do people do here?
That's a good question.
Well they stay inside.
-That's what they do.
-So we're making a video on that today.
We're going granular
in this part of Arizona.
-And every town is totally different.
-Right.
-It's old school Americana.
-It is and that's what you try to preserve.
And that was what my stepdad was all about.
Don, he just loved the United States.
And he loved what it was about.
He loved the freedom he had.
And he loved the industrial part of it.
And showing how it evolved and stuff.
-You're still getting that up here?
Oh yeah. People come all over.
They just love it.
You know Elon is here with an electric car
but we have a 1902 electric Studebaker.
It wasn't a bright idea.
We had electric cars 100 years ago.
-Can we go see that?
-It wasn't the first.
Yeah you pay your admission.
-[Bob laughs]
You're not getting in there for free.
-This is your granddad.
-Yeah.
-And I was just talking to your mom.
Oh that's the electric one.
Yeah so this is a 1902 electric car.
It was called a Studebaker Roundabout.
If you were a gentleman
in the day mobbing one of these
you would have been
heavily sought after with the ladies.
It had no combustion so they weren't
annoyed from all the engine noise.
You know it wasn't all racket.
You could take a nice quiet ride
and talk to your woman.
-And didn't have to worry about horses.
-The horses, and the smell, and the flies.
The only problem is it didn't go very far.
without having to be
recharged again so combustion…
Well that turned into a plus
when you were talking about the date.
-Yeah.
-[chuckling]
[Peter] There you go, Bob.
Mic drop Bob.
This collapses down.
-What about the battery setup?
So it's all under here
in this compartment.
So that battery technology
was there back then?
Yeah 48 volts. It would have looked like…
-Right here.
-Okay.
So now we modernized it,
put 48 volt system in but it still works.
It's got the original
Westinghouse electric motor on it.
-Why was there such a gap
between electric cars then and now?
-I mean electric cars have really…
-Combustion just dominated.
You can see they have problems
with the freezing weather
and them catching on fire
and trying to find
a plug-in station somewhere.
When you go to take it to a mechanic,
everything is high voltage
so it's extremely dangerous.
You gotta know what you're doing.
I think there's just
so many discrepancies where
modern combustion has come so far
and hasn't stopped.
But yeah, so this is
Don's '28 Studebaker race car.
He actually raced this.
He took the straight 8
out of a Studebaker school bus
and put it in here.
And this thing still works.
We took this out
for the 4th of July parade
and I was driving
with my daughter so it was pretty cool.
-So your granddad was a wild man.
-Yeah he was a little bit of a wild man.
This is the original structure,
that house, when this was a mining camp.
[Bob] How did he get this place?
He came up on his own intuition
and said I need a place with
four seasons of weather and mining history.
Because he was just a mining guru man.
He loved collecting old parts.
So you're not gonna be able
to probably fathom this
but nothing was here.
This is his 1914 sawmill.
Don brought his sweet little baby up here.
So it's a 1914 Witte. It's 30 horsepower.
Back in the day when this was a little town
that was a minor league baseball field.
-Minor league baseball field right there?
-Yep.
So your granddad
brought all of this up here?
All of this stuff up here
that you see, yeah.
So how what was his economic engine?
How did he…
So he was a mechanical engineer,
and mechanical operator,
and heavy equipment operator, truck driver,
all into one package for the union.
It's funny 'cause we're from
the same union. I was a crane operator.
He took all of his time that he had been
working with them and on the side
he had been collecting, and collecting.
Wanted to get away from
working for the man.
Finally got to a point where he thought
he could reveal enough stuff
to make this place cool
and then charge a little two dollar fee
and he hustled wood on the side.
So the reason why
that saw mill is so significant
is because he would
hustle his wood on the side.
Because he was trying to generate people.
No Internet.
-She said it ran every day.
-It used to run every single day.
Where else are you gonna get wood milled?
This is their house up here.
-That's your mom's house?
-That's my mom's house.
-Oh that's sick.
-We did all the…
Way up there!
So we used that 1914 mill
to cut a lot of the lumber for that house.
-That is sweet.
-It turned out slick.
I mean look at their view.
-She's looking all the way out to Sedona.
-Yeah.
So your mom was talking about
her grandkids
moving machinery around at 14.
-Yeah my son.
-Like know how to do everything.
They're all home schooled,
hands on practical application.
Ten years ago that would have been
looked at as the bad play.
And now it's like everyone's like,
"Yeah those are the jobs."
Those are the jobs that you want to do.
Everybody's trying to see in the contrast
of you go to college, get in debt,
and then they're like well why is Joe Smith
working his trade for four or five years
and pulling in 150k debt free?
So because your grandfather
took that super risky adventurous
step in life, you're living this life.
Your kids are living
this really rogue hands on life.
-Yeah.
-That's pretty awesome.
Yeah, it is cool, man.
We tried the public school system
and I'm not knocking every public school.
I mean there's good educational places
but you have control of
how you're teaching your kids
and there's a stigma that it's like
they're not social
they're lacking and it's…
It's really untrue.
I mean they're heavily integrated
with FFA, their church group.
They do co-ops.
Most of these guys
on the other side of the mountain.
Home cooking baked goods, jujitsu,
weight lifting, some form of martial arts.
Just cool stuff.
This two story building
was the original house
that was used by the miners
in the late 1800s.
This is the only original structure
that was on the property.
This, and the shafts that they went down.
1907 to 1959
a lady named Petra
actually lived in this house by herself.
She lived to be 105 years old.
So her last three years
she moved to Prescott and passed there.
But yeah you can imagine
she's going out to get all her own wood
'cause there's no electricity.
So she's trying to heat her house,
make her food all by herself.
-You're talking 105.
-105?
-That's why.
What's your take on this part of Arizona?
I love the Wild Wild West man. I mean…
-It still feels that way huh?
-Yeah this is…
This time period right here
is pure debauchery.
Las Vegas
without any law enforcement you know.
Jerome was deemed
the Wickedest Town In The West.
-It was Las Vegas without law.
Without law, you know?
-So just brothels, gun fights…
That whole strip that you guys came through
in Jerome was all red light district.
So the women weren't allowed to mine.
So they had to come up with
their own form of currency.
So they opened brothels.
And it was just the whole Wild West of it.
Then you had people from Spain coming,
people from China coming.
So China brought the opium dens.
Then you had prohibition
with the alcohols.
So that was a high commodity with drinking.
So you got opium and alcohol
mixed in with prostitution.
Now you got mining.
I mean it's just madness.
-A ton of money coming through?
-Ton of money.
-And not people you can push around.
-No.
And that's the thing.
And the women were headstrong.
I mean the guys started getting out
of place, they'd just shoot them.
Throw them down a shaft.
That's just the way it was.
When did that stop?
Like when was the last year of that?
They started civilizing
more into the early '20s.
And then through the '20s to the '50s,
they had a fire department,
they had sheriffs.
-So early 20's, so we're talking
basically a hundred years ago.
-Yes.
-Where it was just wild.
Yep.
Just be careful in here.
This is a little sketch.
Here we go.
[Peter] This was the mannequin
from one of the brothels?
Yeah. [laughs]
Some of the beds.
And you guys
haven't done anything here right?
-No. We just kind of left it.
-This wood, if someone weighs a lot
they're going through this floor.
Yeah I just had a crew
through here yesterday so we're…
Oh look at the old wooden stove.
-Yeah her old wooden stove.
-Oh that is cool.
Old chimney.
-Are you glad you're in 2026 or do you wish
you were growing up back then?
I'd have to say probably back then.
It's kind of the same old demons
but just modernized technology.
-That's a good way of saying it.
Phones are a great thing to have
but they're also…
they can be very dangerous.
Some of the things that we're exposed to
so rapidly in today's society
is pretty dangerous.
Making a phone call
to see how someone's doing
is a lost art in a lot of ways.
-That's true.
Just simple things
where you went to the store
and your hardwood guy and your dentist
was probably someone
you knew well, and their kids,
and their reputation, and their character.
Now it's just who's the best?
Can fix me quick?
Can I just get in and out.
-Bob and I were talking about this
on the way up to Jerome,
in Unit 11 which you can see out there.
If you can look out this window.
Oh cool man.
We were talking about the Internet is
creating a false story about the country.
Because when you get out
in the country like Bob does, like I do,
the vast majority of people
are cool and open.
Today we'd run into people
that want to talk to us.
-And great stories.
-Great stories.
You're a great story.
And then you get online
and it just looks like division and chaos.
And pure dopamine.
I think you're absolutely right.
I visited my sister in Baytown, Texas.
It's exactly what you're saying.
I was up in Sidney, Montana.
I mean the little cafe
had the local's coffee mugs
with their names on the shelf.
And it was like this is cool.
This is down home.
You know that
if something happens in the street
and someone gets hurt
that whole restaurant is gonna empty out
and be like what's going on?
How can I help? How can I be of service?
That's a lost thing.
But no, I agree with you.
There is a thing that's portrayed
and it's sad to see.
'Cause we feed off of it.
-And if young people, say,
don't have time on the road traveling
in front of the screens,
they believe that might be the reality.
A lot of people. That's the problem.
You're interacting with people.
People are pumped to be here.
And typically I try to keep it that way.
It's a very family friendly place.
I try to entertain the people
in the sense of
I don't want to be daunting and
how are you guys doing
and wherever you're from.
If they want to talk about it
then I'll let them.
-I brought all this stuff up. Thank you.
This is how we learn.
This is what I do. You saw my videos.
It's like we went into a portal in here.
Yeah. They hit over $2 billion
in copper in that time.
They were using a lot of it for the war.
For World War I
they were building artillery with copper.
[Peter] What's the story?
This was for the house?
-Yeah. Outhouse.
-But why way up here?
-See all these rocks?
These were all stacked by hand.
These were all old foundations.
The housing was up here.
All the production for the mining
would have been on this flat ground.
There was up to 300 people
living up here at once.
That's called the Haines Shaft.
This was a suburb of Arizona
called Haines, Arizona.
Had its own little post office.
Different prospector with money
investing in his own copper.
Bob and I are just blazing through today.
But any one of those towns
we could spend a full day in easily.
-It's kind of a little hidden gem.
This is what it's like hiking in Arizona.
[laughter]
-That's right.
-This is one of your kids?
-Yeah this is Kaden.
My 14 year old.
Kaden, nice. Eye contact firm shake.
-Nice Kaden. You taught him well.
-This is his dog, Remy.
Kaden what are you working on right now?
Trying to get the 1943 KB International.
-Just get it running?
-Yeah.
-You know how to fix those things?
-What's the belt here?
This is a buckle I got made in New Mexico.
It's the Gold Key Mine.
And then I got my initials
and then Romans 8:28.
-This is his own branding
that he's trying to come out with.
-The KL?
-Yeah the KL for Kaden Lefeu.
-Nice. You love it up here?
Oh yeah.
-You keeping busy? Never bored?
Never.
He's either doing carpentry,
running an excavator backhoe,
shooting squirrels.
-Excavator?
-I mean it's just kind of endless.
-[Bob] Where's the truck?
-Riding motocross.
You want to see the truck?
The truck's pretty rad.
The battery's dead
needs a new fuel filter.
We've been trying to find the keys for it.
The electrical's a little chewed up
but it's almost done.
I want to drive it
in the parade 4th of July.
[Bob] Is this an old army truck?
It got painted but yeah it was a…
-Yeah, it was an old military truck.
-US Navy.
The front axle,
that's definitely a military axle.
With the ball peen front joints.
[Peter] Kaden, you got
buddies doing the same thing?
-Hm-mm.
-No?
Brothers?
-Yeah I got 5 siblings.
-There you go.
-That's all you need.
-[Bob] This thing is solid.
Yeah isn't this thing wild?
This thing runs.
You want to hear it fired up?
-Let's do it.
-Absolutely.
[spray can hissing]
Oh.
[engine cranks and starts]
[diesel engine rumbling]
[engine revving]
-[Peter] You have a blacksmith here?
-Yeah we have a Blacksmith working here.
-This is Mr. William.
He Blacksmiths and he does woodwork.
[Peter] Oh that's cool.
He makes these
handmade peppercorn grinders and…
Yeah. So he's got his coal forge back there
and he pretty much uses this propane guy
so he can adjust his heat
whenever he wants
and it's not so temperamental.
And we've got a fire ban going
so you can't run the coal forge very well.
Is there many people
doing your craft anymore or not really?
There has been a big resurgence
since those shows like Forged in Fire.
-Okay.
You get a lot of people
that want to try it again
and make knives and make a…
Everybody wants to be a knife maker.
-Damascus steel?
-Yep
-That's a buzzword, Bob.
-Is it?
In the knife industry.
-I'm not a knife man.
-Me neither.
I made that back in the '90s.
'95 I think it was.
My uncle.
used to hate going into restaurants
and getting those steak knives
that are like…
-Don't cut anything.
-Right.
So he always carried his own.
So I made this for him.
And you can see
the different layers and everything.
I made that for him.
He carried it until he passed away.
And then I got it back. So I keep that
up here just to show people I do…
-So he'd go into the restaurant
with his own steak knife?
He would bring his own.
-I like it.
-[Bob] I'm not using your cheap knife.
[chuckling]
-Take care. All the best.
-Thank you.
[Peter] I'll owe you money.
I don't expect freebies.
Can we get a picture?
-How much do I owe you? You sure?
-Yeah we're good.
-It's actually video right now.
-Who are you guys?
I'll tell you guys when he leaves.
There you go.
-Sweet.
-[Bob] Thank you. Really fun.
Love what you got here.
I want to tell people,
what's your place called?
-Gold King Mine.
So if they're coming up to Jerome,
drive from the fire station.
One mile past the fire station,
the Gold King Mine Ghost Town.
We almost missed out on it.
I know man.
We almost turned around,
that woulda sucked. So thank you.
There it is guys.
You come up this road here.
-It's all self-guided.
-Self-guided, okay.
I'm gonna fire it up.
Bob wants to fire it up for you guys.
-He wants to impress you.
-[laughter]
It almost sounds like a Prius that's angry.
See you guys.
-[Bob] Look at that.
-[Peter] That is beautiful.
I was just thinking going into Jerome.
Let's check it out.
I know a cool place. I've been here before.
Didn't he say this part right here
is the red light district?
I think it's up here.
Let's check it out.
-[Peter] It's got a cool feel to it.
-[Bob] I think it's a cool place.
I love these old post offices, Bob.
You ever go into these?
-I love the way they smell.
-Yeah, right.
With the old metal boxes.
Small town like this.
They're open for a couple hours a day.
Look at these old boxes.
All the old detail.
-Whoa.
-So cool.
Look at that.
I know you're more interested
in prostitutes Bob.
[Bob laughs]
-From the 1840s.
-I think it's up here.
Okay here it is I think.
This building was originally
a brothel known as Jennie's Place.
It was built in 1898.
From Belgium.
But the Euros
that came here back in the day.
-Had no idea what they were getting into.
-No.
They didn't speak English.
She's a long cool woman in a black dress.
[Peter] Murdered in 1905.
"Was reputed to be the wealthiest
woman in the Arizona Territory."
-I believe it.
Let's check this out.
The Haunted Liberty Theater.
Little movie day Bob.
Look at this. Isn't it cool?
Oh my god.
I don't know if it's
gonna show up with the camera.
Very steep.
-Bob you alright?
-I'm fine.
Look at these chairs. This is deluxe man.
I think Black Betty over at the Bordello
is probably an investor in this place.
[Peter] What a trippy place.
Oh this is why they call it
the Haunted Movie Theater.
[scary music plays]
[Peter] Creepy zone slash museum, Jerome.
[Bob] Crazy.
Would never have known this was here.
-[Bob] That smells good.
-[Peter] Little bar in here.
[Peter] Old school bar
next to new gift shop. Look at this.
Bartlett Hotel.
-It must have burned.
-"First two story building in Jerome.
Had rooms for dances dining and sleeping."
1898, the structure
was destroyed by a fire.
I mean isn't that the Arizona story?
Destroyed by a fire.
-How many times have we heard that?
-Oh it happens all the time. Whole towns.
The mining company sold
portions of it for salvage in the 1950s.
Removing the entire top floor.
[Bob] Just imagine you came
to this town on business in 1925,
1926.
Oh here you go Bob. Here's a fire truck.
That's a Dodge.
Dodge Brothers.
That's a little fire truck.
That's nice man.
Maybe the smallest police station.
Have you seen one this small before?
-No I have not.
-And I have been here before.
This restaurant is awesome. Great food.
-The Clinkscale?
-The Clinkscale.
I'll show a little view of it.
-The town's a bit all over the place huh?
-So this town was dead.
-And the artists brought it back.
Pretty cool.
'60s, I think there were
like 50 people living up here.
That must have been great.
And then it just built momentum.
And now you have a tourist place mostly.
It's just fascinating to me,
how do you bring a Quincy, Illinois back?
Bring a Gloucester, Ohio back?
Does it have to die completely
for the artists to get in
and start to try to do something?
The artists come in when it's cheap.
They can create their art
and it's inspirational.
Like this is inspirational for art.
-Absolutely.
Yeah I wouldn't mind living here.
If you come here in the 1960s.
-A lot of confession happened here.
[Bob] But were they contrite?
Here, read this.
What's a spirit box, Bob?
Oh, listen to this.
Often hand held radio scanning device
used by paranormal investigators
to communicate with spirits.
Typically via
electronic voice phenomenon, EVP.
It sweeps all through the AM-FM
frequencies creating white noise
that believers think entities manipulate
to form audible words or phrases
often in real time.
So the idea is that
there's a lot of spirits here.
And so apparently these guys come in here
and try to get some spirits to talk.
-[Peter] This looks like a hotel huh?
[Bob] It does.
These are really high-end places too.
[Peter] The gateway to nowhere.
But this time of day right around now
that sun starts going down a little bit.
-Little breeze, cools off in the shade.
-Yeah it feels good.
The Asylum Restaurant, Bob.
[Bob] So this was an asylum.
This was for crazy miners.
-We gotta get the history on this place.
Or you said it was an infirmary.
-I thought it was.
-Probably a ton of injuries.
-We're gonna find out.
[Peter] Oh that's beautiful.
So you have these tables.
The windows open here.
And just right out to that view.
You know what
this feels like a little bit Bob?
That hotel in The Shining.
-Right?
-The Overlook.
The Overlook. There you go.
You wanna check the lobby out?
[Bob] All work and no play
makes Jack a dull boy.
It's got Shining vibes.
That's probably why they say it's haunted.
Why thank you.
Hi there.
-How you doing?
-[woman] Good, and you?
Doing great.
-[Bob] What's the story in this place?
-[Peter] Asylum?
No. The asylum is the restaurant.
And that's just the name that they go by.
They rent it from us so we're not gonna
ask them to change their name.
This was a hospital. It was built in 1926.
And it took them about nine months
to have it all built.
By what 1927? It was up and open.
And it's built on bedrock and it's cement
on top because the rest of Jerome
moves about a half inch and they
didn't want this one to go anywhere.
The staircases coming up here
in town were slanted.
Yes. There were landslides in 1940.
The Jerome Jail slid down the hill.
They say it's haunted right?
Is that the story?
Well yeah.
I mean it's an old hospital built in 1926.
Of course it's haunted.
We have Claude was found
at the bottom of the elevator I believe.
He was found
with his palms facing up which is weird
but he was laying down on his back
And then one of the nurses
crawled down the elevator
and it unfortunately took off his head.
But they did figure out that the
elevator isn't the reason that killed him
but they never figured out more than that.
So we do know that Otis isn't responsible.
Oh the manufacturer, Otis.
[Bob] There had to be
a lot of injuries in the mines.
Yeah I mean they had lit
kerosene lamps on their faces
going a thousand feet into the ground.
-Yeah.
-[laughter]
[Bob] My family's miners so I know.
-They were getting that copper.
-Absolutely.
And then the main mine,
the United Copper Verde Mine Company,
they had a steam shovel explosion
blow up their tunnel entrance
so they went to an open pit mine.
-Oh okay.
The other one the Audrey Headframe,
that's the one over by
the State Park down there.
You can
kind of see the framework of it.
That one was the one that stayed over time.
So there's hundreds of mines
and tunnels under this town.
Oh really? It's Swiss cheese under here?
Just not under us but under the town, yes.
If you go exploring up some of the
mountains you can find some of the mines.
I wouldn't recommend.
-No, we're good.
-Most are filled with water.
You take a rock and you listen to it fall.
You might drown. Don't do it.
[Bob] I'm not doing it.
So what's it like living up here?
-It sounds awesome.
-Awesome.
[Peter] Thanks ladies. Appreciate it.
People can stay here now. Rooms for rent.
[Bob] 50 cent.
Well how much are they?
Does it show in this brochure Bob?
[Peter] There you go.
$220, $250, $300, $385.
That's probably the car
that the hotel sent out
to pick up people at the train station.
That's a Rolls Royce limousine.
Here's another one. This is a Pierce Arrow.
-You know this?
-This is a great vehicle.
Now what I was saying about Jay Leno,
he was saying these old cars,
he has a Pierce Arrow
and the only thing he had to do
was change the battery
because the old batteries were leaking.
But they have truck frames.
You know, they're really solid.
What I'm trying to say is that
everyone thinks this stuff
is really old and rickety
but it was the apex
of the technology of the age
and it worked, it all worked.
So you had this age, this sort of flowering
of the Industrial Revolution,
the first part
of the flowering of the revolution,
the Industrial Revolution.
Cars, heat, mining,
all these things happening
and to live in that time
it must have been incredible
because you would have thought,
"Oh wow, this is great."
That Pierce Arrow you wouldn't
even know you were riding in a car.
I think of tourists
from around the world, say Asia or Europe,
yes, LA, New York,
fantastic places, great to visit.
But if they did this trip
we've done today Bob
just blow their minds don't you think?
'Cause it's…
nothing like this exists anywhere.
Well it's a different world
that people don't realize.
There are places like this
all over the place.
Up in Montana
there's mining towns, all kinds of stuff.
It's endless.
And if you are interested in history
this is how you learn history.
You know I learned
because I would visit some place and go,
"Oh that's how that worked."
What you do, the lifestyle you live,
in this country
you can constantly discover.
-That's the beauty of it.
-Yes.
You can constantly explore and learn.
Well that's what I decided last year.
I do not want to sit in the desert
with a bunch of people
b*tching and moaning
for the entire winter.
I want to go to places
and different places.
And I need to obviously work on
getting the funding to do that.
I want to stay traveling,
going places, and seeing things.
I don't want to just sit.
And for those that don't know
Bob has an awesome YouTube channel.
Talks story,
talks history in these beautiful places.
Shows the life of Unit 11
which we haven't shown much of today.
-Today's been more about the locations.
-Unit 11 is a supporting actor.
Yeah exactly.
He's a character actor today.
Very important though for the story.
And he has a podcast.
You're gonna see when
we go down this mountain.
We're gonna be going very slow
because that truck is heavy enough
that it will gain speed
and it won't be good.
Getting over, I don't know if it's
7,000 feet, 8,000 feet.
-Yeah it's 7,000 feet.
-Up to Mingus Mountain.
And then coming into
a whole different valley.
-Whole different reality.
-Yes, whole different reality.
[Western music]
[Bob] Watch that wall.
Don't let it get close to that wall.
[Peter] Bob do you ever feel like
you overdid it with the size of this thing?
-Well I do now. No, I love this thing.
-What's the gas mileage?
-10 miles to the gallon.
As my dad said
it'll pass anything but a gas station.
[music continues]
Oh my God, look at that.
[Bob] I can feel the breeze up here.
[Peter] -It's so much cooler huh?
It feels great.
We have these tall pines here.
We're up at altitude, roughly 7,000 feet.
Less temperature, more moisture
in the winter and the summers.
[Bob] Again, it's another one of those
unique things about Arizona.
[music continues]
Bob, little update here on the descent.
What do you think so far?
-Well so far so good.
-You weren't that guy.
He left his bumper there.
-Wasn't too bad Bob?
-Wasn't too bad.
I'm not smelling the brakes.
We had to take this mountain.
This was a good way to do it.
[Peter] This is Prescott Valley I believe.
That's how the locals say it.
"Preskit" not Prescott.
I don't call it Prescott either.
I call it "Preskit".
[Peter] So you can see we got
a bunch of new home developments here Bob.
-We sure do.
-A place where I think
a lot of people from from the Midwest
have moved out here
from all over the country.
Seeking sunny weather,
warmer weather, cheaper living costs.
I asked you off camera,
I'll ask you again,
Top three states if you gotta settle down,
can't go anywhere, what are they?
Arizona,
California by the Green River,
San Bernardino, going west towards LA.
I do like Tennessee.
There's some pretty cool places
in Tennessee.
[Peter] Here we are in Prescott,
food truck scene, The Yard.
And here we got a cool downtown.
Bob what do you know about Prescott?
-Well this was the original capital
of the state, the territorial capital.
-Ranching?
Also it was a mining service.
So services, banks, things that mines need.
So this town also served the mines.
This is a big town
compared to where we've been today.
-This video is getting pretty long.
I say we just go to
the downtown here check it out.
This town deserves a completely separate
video on its own some other time.
-How you doing?
-I watch you videos.
-Thank you.
-What is this rig?!
-We're making a video right now.
-Right on.
My name's Randy.
-You're from here?
-Yes.
-How is it?
-It's good, I love it.
Mountain biking, small town feel.
Alright. I love Arizona.
I dig what you do. Thank you.
-You gotta love the Western wear huh?
-The Western wear.
[Peter] What's your shirt say sir?
"It's not my fault
I was left unsupervised."
-Are you guys from Prescott?
-Yes.
-How is it?
-Great.
Great huh? Beautiful out here.
It is beautiful.
It's a nice small community
and there's always
lots of extra activities going on.
-Looks nice.
-Whiskey Row if that's your thing.
-That's what this is called?
-Yep.
[man] Howdy. How we doing?
-[man] Good How we doing?
-Hi guys.
[Peter] It's got like a
solid Western feel Bob.
Yes.
Like cowboy ranching feel.
Here's the interesting thing.
The more time I spend in the West
the less I notice the Western stuff.
It's very interesting.
When I first came out here
I could just feel being in the West.
This is the West.
Now I'm kind of used to it.
So I have to remind myself.
[man] Let's mug the guy with the pizza.
He's got pizza. Let's mug him.
-He's walking away from us understandably.
Oldest rodeo I read.
Yes. 1888 I believe.
Right up there. World's oldest rodeo, 1888.
Right in the building.
-[man] Enjoy.
-[Peter] Take care.
[Bob] This has just been great.
How many people when they think of Arizona,
you think of Arizona highways,
Phoenix, golf, you think of all this stuff.
My own personal feeling is
that the history of the West
is really the history of the United States.
Almost more than
the Revolutionary or the Civil War periods.
Because the West is really all about
opportunity and people moving west
to build and grow and do things.
That is still a factor.
People are moving to Arizona.
People are moving out West
to different places, Montana, Wyoming
to start something new.
To get away from
the quote unquote "rat race".
Alright guys. Just want to let you know
Bob has his own podcast
more about Unit 11.
The nuts and bolts of it.
Also your travels around the country.
Fantastic pod.
I listen to it. I watch it.
Links down below.
Bob's also gonna do
a special pod with me tomorrow.
We're gonna sit out by Unit 11 right?
Bob's gonna ask me questions.
We're gonna chat long form.
By the time I post this
we'll have that pod done.
Link down below. Anything else?
-I have nothing else. I am exhausted.
-Great trip today.
I want to eat now.
We're gonna get some food.
Thanks for coming along
on that journey you guys.
Until the next one.
[Western music]